I respectfully request all fellow practitioners to join
hands and recite the Buddha's name, seeking his protection: Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni.
Dear fellow practitioners,
today I am also here with
great joy
because it aligns with
our practice, our current practice, and our future endeavors.
People often
ask, "How can I attain
enlightenment?"
Today, we
have a very happy occasion: the practice of discerning the
Dharma will give rise to enlightenment.
In our Golden Cup Club,
we have been practicing discerning the Dharma
to encourage each other in our practice, thus
creating
opportunities for enlightenment. I remember when
I first established the Dharma
practice center, my master
taught and allowed us to recite the teachings
after he lectured.
Master Trach recited the
Dharma teachings that he had learned, adapting them to
the circumstances of the Buddhist practitioners in the
monastery, so that they could practice more diligently.
So, from the very beginning of the
monastery's establishment, the practice of Dharma selection has been present.
Therefore, it has been about
ten years now, ten years since the
monastery was founded.
Today, I come to you,
dear Buddhist practitioners, to share a sutra from the Sutra of the
Immortal's Birth to Enlightenment.
King Minanda asked, "How many Dharmas are there for the cause of enlightenment, Venerable One?"
That is, which cause gives rise to
enlightenment, and
how many Dharmas are there for that cause? Venerable One, Master
Trach replied, "There are
seven causes of enlightenment, called the Seven Factors of Enlightenment."
These seven causes that give rise to enlightenment are the Seven Factors of Enlightenment: Mindfulness,
Dharma Selection, Diligence, Joy, Tranquility, and Equanimity.
In this sutra, mindfulness comes first, followed by
Dharma Selection, then Diligence, Joy, Tranquility, and Equanimity. There
are
other arrangements, such as...  The practice of discerning the Dharma,
diligently practicing the Dharma, joyfully practicing the Dharma, equanimity, and then concentration—here, Yen
will also briefly explain this concept, which is the Four Foundations of Mindfulness.
This means that one can use the
Four Foundations of Mindfulness to generate enlightenment, use discerning the Dharma to generate enlightenment,
use diligently practicing the Dharma to
generate enlightenment, use joy to generate enlightenment,
use tranquility to generate enlightenment, use
concentration to generate enlightenment, and use equanimity to generate enlightenment. In
these seven factors of
enlightenment, we practice the seven factors of enlightenment, and we attain enlightenment
in each of them.
Yen continues reading the sutra. King
Min An Da asked the person who attained enlightenment which
factor of enlightenment it was, or whether they had to achieve all
seven factors of enlightenment. When we read the above, we also have the question: Do we have to achieve all seven
factors of enlightenment to generate
enlightenment? Or is it enough to practice just one
of the seven factors of enlightenment to bring about
enlightenment?
The monk replied: Of course,
achieving all seven factors of enlightenment is necessary.  Complete,
but just one attainment of
enlightenment is enough. That is, if we
attain one of these factors,
we are already enlightened. The
king asked, "Which factor are you referring to?"
The venerable Na Tien replied, "It is the factor of discerning the Dharma,
also known as the wisdom of discerning the Dharma." The
king then asked, "Your Majesty, I have a question,
Venerable. Because there are
seven factors of enlightenment, why do you say that
attaining just one factor of discerning the Dharma is
enough
to attain enlightenment?" Here, dear
fellow practitioners, please understand that the word "enlightenment" here means enlightenment, the first step in practicing the Dharma to achieve enlightenment. Enlightenment means understanding clearly, not that enlightenment
is the attainment of liberation.
Many people think that enlightenment is the attainment of liberation, but that's
not true. I'm just
giving an example: I have attained enlightenment that
this world is suffering. I have attained enlightenment that only through
practice can one achieve enlightenment and liberation.  Only by being freed from craving can one
escape suffering—that is enlightenment.
However, to achieve
this enlightenment, we must
practice the Dharma. To understand the Dharma, we
must continue to discern the Dharma to
understand. Only after understanding can we practice. That's
why it's called the Dharma-discernment enlightenment factor,
then the diligence enlightenment factor. That is,
we understand, then we
practice, and after practicing, we attain the joy enlightenment factor.
Then comes peace, then
comes concentration. This peace is lightness, the peace and
happiness of both body and mind. Concentration is when wisdom comes into play. My esteemed fellow practitioners, I
would like to continue reading the sutra. I
have a question, Venerable Sir, because there are seven factors of enlightenment.
Why do you
say that achieving only one
Dharma-discernment enlightenment factor is enough to attain enlightenment? Na Xian said, "Your
Majesty, how do you understand that a
sword placed in its sheath consists of seven
parts: the inner sheath, the outer sheath, the hilt, the back of the sword, the
belly of the sword, and the blade—that is what is
considered complete, is
n't it?" The king replied, "That's right."  Lord Na Tien asked, "
When cutting something, do people use
the entire part of the object?" The king said, "No, only the
blade is needed." Lord Na Tien replied, "It
's the same. The six-sided enlightenment factor, Wisdom and
Discernment, is like the blade of the six-sided enlightenment factor,
while the remaining part is like the sheath and the hilt. They are not separate but
constitute one part. However, only the
Wisdom and Discernment of the Enlightenment factor can cut through
afflictions." Then King To Dai Vuong replied, "
That's truly wonderful! Therefore, the
practice of Wisdom and Discernment of the Enlightenment factor
is very beneficial." Why is it
so beneficial? Yen shared her own experience: a
person who practices
Wisdom and Discernment of the Enlightenment factor is someone who
constantly directs their mind towards the Dharma, someone who
constantly contemplates the Dharma. Because they contemplate the
Dharma, they gain diligence; because they have diligence, they have joy;
because they have joy, they have peace; because they have peace, they have equanimity;
because they have equanimity, they have mindfulness; because they have mindfulness, they
have concentration.
That's why Wisdom and Discernment is paramount. As for
those who don't contemplate the Dharma
...  How can one be mindful of the Dharma without it? If one
doesn't remember the Dharma, how can one be diligent?
Therefore, it is said that among the seven factors of
enlightenment, we only need the factor of
mindful awareness to cut off
afflictions. This is also a
way of saying, a way of encouraging, as taught by Venerable
Nāgasena. If everyone enters the factor of
mindful awareness, that is, whatever they hear,
they contemplate it, and then
naturally they will develop a liking for it. And if they develop a liking for it, they
will be diligent.
Therefore, it must be said that Venerable Nāgasena
taught correctly, but within that correctness, within
his wisdom, there is also the wisdom of skillful
means to encourage others to
practice. Why can we say
that mindfulness can also lead
to enlightenment? But mindfulness
must also go through the factor of mindful awareness
to attain mindfulness. For example,
mindfulness consists of the Four Foundations of Mindfulness: mindfulness of the body, mindfulness of
feelings, mindfulness of the mind, and mindfulness of phenomena. To be
mindful of body, feelings, mind, and phenomena,
one must
understand the Dharma, and to understand it, one must
go through the factor of mindful awareness.  Therefore,
the Discernment of Dharma is sufficient for us to
achieve enlightenment and
cut off those afflictions. That's
why we see that
practicing the Discernment of
Dharma is very important, and if we want to diligently practice and achieve
liberation, we must
practice the Discernment of Dharma.
But how do we practice the Discernment of Dharma?
If, after hearing this, everyone
just takes the sutra and uses it for divination, they might be
divining incorrectly and practicing wrongly, which is very
dangerous. We must follow our own circumstances.
For example, if we are not yet
deeply experienced practitioners, we
cannot practice the Dharma because our divination is
not closely aligned with the practice, so
we will practice incorrectly. That is, a person who
practices the Dharma is someone who diligently practices
it. The Discernment of Dharma
must go hand in hand with the Diligence of Dharma for the Dharma to be
correct, because
they will be able to verify whether
their thinking is correct or not, as they
are the practitioners themselves.
But
if you are not a practitioner, for example,
someone who
does not practice the Four Foundations of Mindfulness, then you can't really practice it.
But you will be mistaken because if
you don't practice, how
can you thoroughly verify your
practice of the Four Foundations of Mindfulness?
For example, Buddhists are the same. For
instance, when Buddhists hear about the
benefits of making offerings, they
must also verify it.
That is, if I make offerings, if I
practice, if I see my karma changing,
then I will believe in
this offering practice, believe in this practice. In this,
whatever we have practiced, we have discerned the
Dharma regarding merit, diligently practicing
giving and offering, and we
experience joy, happiness because of the change in
karma. Because we have joy and happiness, our karma has changed,
so we should be at peace, right,
dear fellow practitioners? Once karma changes,
it will be at peace. So, those who
want to achieve enlightenment must
practice discerning the Dharma. And when we haven't
practiced discerning the Dharma yet, we don't understand because
we are not practitioners,
we must listen to those who have practiced
before. Once they have discerned the Dharma, then we
know how to practice, and then we can
discern it in our own circumstances.
For example, Buddhists who have practiced giving
alms and transforming karma will, the
next time they encounter someone with a
similar karmic connection, they will be able to self-
select immediately. Your situation
is due to this, just like my family.
My family is like this: after
listening to the Buddha's teachings, I practice like this, I give alms like this, and
I receive
this kind of merit. That's us "selecting the
Dharma," dear fellow practitioners. Therefore, "selecting the
Dharma" is the most important aspect of cutting off
afflictions. That's why our club
is on the right path to the
most beneficial practice.
We regularly hold Dharma-selecting sessions three times a
month, on the evenings of the 3rd, 18th, and
20th, where we discuss Dharma with other Buddhists
to understand and
apply Buddhist teachings to benefit ourselves and cut off
afflictions according to our circumstances.
We are not yet ordained monks or nuns,
so we haven't completely severed all afflictions.
We cut off whatever afflictions arise according to our circumstances.  For
example, the suffering caused by illness and disease, the
suffering caused by possessions, the suffering
caused by disobedient children—that is, the suffering is
only in its lowest form, not yet the
suffering of liberation from the cycle of birth and death. It's
only liberation from
suffering, the suffering of unfulfilled desires, that's all.
So
we must also discern the Dharma corresponding to
our circumstances so that we can
practice it. Then we will benefit,
so everyone is a person who discerns the Dharma
if we have the mindset and apply it.
Therefore, if
we want to achieve the discernment of the Dharma,
we must listen to the Dharma diligently. Listening to the Dharma
will give us the
habit of contemplating the Dharma, and that thinking of the Dharma
is the discernment of the Dharma, my dear fellow practitioners. I
wish you all diligence in contemplating the
Dharma, diligently listening to the discernment of the Dharma, understanding
and learning how to think, learning how to
discern the Dharma so that we can discern the Dharma for
ourselves and also help others
discern the Dharma for others to hear. But
don't discern things that you haven't
practiced yet, because we will do it wrong.
We cannot verify the meaning of
our words. Wishing all fellow
practitioners diligent practice. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
We respectfully request that all fellow practitioners
transcribe
this merit by hand and dedicate it to
all
disciples and sentient beings so that they may all
attain
Buddhahood. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. [Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
Ni a